you've heard that commercial real estate
is a problem but if you're not invested
in it then why should you care you came
here for the truth so let me unveil that
for you in today's video I'm going to
explain everything you need to know
about the commercial real estate
scenario that's going on right now it's
a crisis and it's unfolding before our
very eyes so pay attention I'll give you
all the details that you need to know
let's begin by taking a look at the
contrarian aspect of this as you see
Warren Buffett's protege makes an
offbeat bet by San Francisco real estate
so if you can believe it or not somebody
is actually willing to buy now of course
anytime you have a depressed asset there
are going to be buyers because they're
thinking hey if this thing can go up
just a little bit well then we could do
very well on our cash because nobody
wants to touch it and that's an
important thing it's a distinction with
a lot of of the others because for so
many people they had been unable to look
at this as a real investment opportunity
is that changing now well we'll see if
this contrarian made the right bet CR
commercial real estate vet who advised
on8 billion of deal says 30% of Office
Buildings are basically worth nothing
and just have to be torn down now this
is where I want to spend some time for a
minute because you got to understand
this there's a lot of real estate out
there I'll show you the chart that
actually gives you the inventory you got
to know that a lot of the debt is coming
due on it and certainly we have an issue
because there's a lot of unnecessary
buildings and what do you do with
unnecessary buildings well that's the
problem that we've encountered here with
commercial real estate as remote work
keeps employees out of the office and
vacancy rates sit at alltime highs
commercial property owners are
desperately trying to avoid default by
upgrading their spaces to attract new
tenants converting their space into
apartments or simply offloading their
assets one longtime industry
professional doesn't think that will be
enough and that's where we get into the
crisis for commercial real estate you
see there's a problem I'm going to give
you an idea of how much is actually you
know in this Center or the core of this
issue and I want you to think for a
second of who this starts to affect
commercial real estate
is just a small piece of the big real
estate puzzle we know that uh there's
real estate globally of course we look
at office we look at retail we look at
residential we look at industrial we
look at the warehousing I mean there's
all these different parts to it and
certainly there's an issue here when
there's just way too much retail and way
too much office you got to know how many
people have moved back into the office
and how many are going to remain in
hybrid status can you guess I'm going to
show you the details here for the United
States how many workers at this time in
20 let's say late
2023 how many of them are back to the
office I'm going to show you that in a
second it's crazy the real estate
downtown downturn comes for America's
Premier office Towers yes this is the
problem even at the biggest of the big
companies well this is where we have an
issue because the debt comes due well
looking at the current years of Supply
based on 2015 to 2019 average net
absorption so what does that mean office
Class A and Class B there's just too
much the
supply if we compare it to all these
different things and look we're
comparing pre 2020 okay the four years
pre-2020 and you could see that there's
a clear overs supply of office
and that then cannot be resolved by
simply flipping a switch you can't print
your way out of that well at least you
can't actually print your way you can
try it you can try doing it you could
see here let's look at the three
different aspects there's the work from
home barometer that's the yellow line or
should I say dare I say the Gold Line
you have Open Table diners so
representative of restaurants and then
the TSA checkpoints all right so air
travel looking at restaurants and then
of course we see it with that with the
uh work from home 53% so what did you
answer their answer right now is
53% and that is truly uh something to
behold because we were not expecting
anything like this at all brace for more
pain in commercial real real estate as a
mountain of debt comes to Market
fundamentals on office properties are
deteriorating fast this is Canada this
is us this is basically everywhere
office prices still need to drop 50% for
housing conversion projects to work
that's where it comes into play here
when we start to see the the solutions
oh I know we have a shortage of houses
we got a lot of office we just convert
them done problem solved but the issue
is as they see here for it to work the
prices of those properties have to come
down now let's say that happens
50% right well who's now taking that
loss who's going to take the loss on
that well there are lenders out there
that are going to be punished as a
result of this who are those lenders
well the vast majority of them are
actually the regional lenders remember
svb Silicon Valley Bank remember
signature
remember all these like right now what
we're seeing is New York Community Bank
NYCB that's having a major problem and
currently as of this recording is in the
midst of collapsing those are the ones
often lending to these uh commercial
real estate properties so we've got an
issue that goes on as a result there is
a chain effect there's a problem that
cannot simply be resolved by saying well
you know what we just cut the valuation
down by 50% convert it over to real EST
over to residential real estate we're
all good it's not going to happen like
that there could be some instances look
at this look how terrible this is
developer considers tennis courts for
empty Manhattan Lots slated for office
tower oh we don't need office Towers
there's too much of them and building
them what are we building them for I got
an idea let's put a tennis court there I
mean what a world is wow I mean
probably would fill it up and it would
bring in Revenue but a tower let's say
it was 50 stories let's say it was 80
stories that would have brought in a lot
more revenue and now something very
different Okay so we've definitely
encountered a problem in the commercial
real estate market you've got to know
the ins and outs in this video we
discuss the inventory levels you can see
the over Supply the debt is coming due
there are fundamental issues here and
they cannot be resolved so who are the
weakest links they are the regional
Banks New York Community Bank NYCB
you're looking at all those other
Regional Banks they are front and center
there's even a Regional Bank ETF which
you can pay attention to to give
yourself a little bit of a look into
what the markets believe right now are
going on so I hope you appreciated this
video if you did hit that Thumbs Up
Button check that link in the
description below to get the latest and
greatest beyond anything you've seen
before 2 hours with me every single
Friday where I bring you the best of the
best unheard of anywhere else if you
can't make it live for that session I
give people the recordings of those
sessions I hope that you will be one of
those I'll see you tomorrow take care